README.md, before:

# White_Utils – Java Utility Library

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/mx.whiteweb.sdev/white-utils.svg)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/mx.whiteweb.sdev/white-utils)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Main](https://github.com/WhiteOrganization/white-utils/actions/workflows/build-main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WhiteOrganization/white-utils/actions/workflows/build-main.yml)



A lightweight library containing shared and generic utility classes for Java-based projects.

## 1) What is this repository for?

### 1.1) Quick summary
Version: `1.0.9`

**White_Utils** is a public Java library that provides standardized and generic utility classes to simplify common operations such as logging, formatting, and general helper functions across Java and Maven projects.
It is published for public consumption and is also used as a standard within White Organization.

---

## 2) How to Use

WhiteUtils is designed to be as generic and dependency-minimal as possible so it can be integrated into any Java-based project.

**Add dependency (example):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>mx.whiteweb.sdev</groupId>
    <artifactId>white-utils</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.8</version>
</dependency>
```

**Primary utilities (examples):**
- `WhiteLoggeable` — standardized logging helpers (SLF4J-friendly usage).

**Example:**
```java
@Slf4j
public class MyService implements WhiteLoggeable {
    @Override public org.slf4j.Logger getLogger() { return log;}
    
    public void myProcess(String name, int age) {
        // Method chaining is supported - all logging methods return LogContext
        var log = withSignature("myProcess(name, age)")
            .start("Processing user {} with age {}", name, age);
        
        log.debug("User age is {}", age);
        if (age < 18) {
            log.warn("User {} is a minor", name);
        }
        
        log.info("User processed successfully")
            .end("age is now {}", age);
    }
}
```

## 3) Configuration / Setup
How do I get set up for development?

#### 3.1) Development environment
- [JDK](https://openjdk.org/) version: 	`1.8`
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)

#### 3.2) Project Dependencies
This library uses:
- **Lombok** to log errors and general logs.
    - **Slf4j**

#### 3.3) Planned Dependencies (in the future)
- **JUnit5**. No tests have been added yet.


### 3.3) Configuration Steps
#### 3.3.1) Environment Configuration
_Please execute the `main-protection-win.bat` file in the root directory of the project
to protect the main branch from being corrupted unintentionally._

You will require all the Development elements in your environment.

An IDE with Maven support is suggested for you to make any modifications to the code.

## 4) How to Deploy?
The deployment process is automated at this point, once the new version is detected to be merge into main from a PR, a GitHub action will build the artifact and upload it to Maven Central.
## 5) What are the Contribution guidelines?

#### 5.1) Writing tests.

- Unit tests using JUnit 5 will be required for new utility code.
- Keep test scope focused and deterministic.

#### 5.2) Code review.

- Create feature branches and open PRs against `main`.
- Provide a clear description of the change, rationale, and any compatibility notes.
- Keep the API surface small and stable. Maintain backward compatibility where feasible.

#### 5.3) Other guidelines.

_Please ask for the code standard to use as a guideline and reflect it in the project._
- Ensure `pom.xml` contains appropriate metadata (groupId, artifactId, version, licenses, SCM, developers) when preparing releases for Maven Central.

## 6) Who do I talk to?

<table>
<thead><tr><th><b>Role</b></th> <th><b>Contact</b></th></tr></thead>
<tr><td>Owner/admin</td><td>current main developer: <a href='mailto:obed.vazquez@gmail.com'>obed.vazquez@gmail.com</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Supporters</td><td> Currently none</td></tr>
<tr><td>Community</td><td> send us a message in <a href='https://discord.gg/NPY5XcrKE4'>our Discord Server</a></td></tr>
</table>

>Please, contact me if you want to help; In general, I'm developing, maintaining, and supporting this project
on my own with no help or support from anyone; any tip, comment, change, or help in general is well-received.

Commit message:

Simple hotfixes
- The only class should have documentation more concise in the javadocs, and it was corrected with this fix.
- Fixed badge in the README.md.
- Modified the branch-protection script and updated documentation in README.md.
- Bumped version.

README.md, after:

# White_Utils – Java Utility Library

[![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/mx.whiteweb.sdev/white-utils.svg)](https://search.maven.org/artifact/mx.whiteweb.sdev/white-utils)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Main](https://github.com/WhiteOrganization/white-utils/actions/workflows/build-main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/WhiteOrganization/white-utils/actions/workflows/build-main.yml)



A lightweight library containing shared and generic utility classes for Java-based projects.

## 1) What is this repository for?

### 1.1) Quick summary
Version: `1.0.9`

**White_Utils** is a public Java library that provides standardized and generic utility classes to simplify common operations such as logging, formatting, and general helper functions across Java and Maven projects.
It is published for public consumption and is also used as a standard within White Organization.

---

## 2) How to Use

WhiteUtils is designed to be as generic and dependency-minimal as possible so it can be integrated into any Java-based project.

**Add dependency (example):**
```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>mx.whiteweb.sdev</groupId>
    <artifactId>white-utils</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.8</version>
</dependency>
```

**Primary utilities (examples):**
- `WhiteLoggeable` — standardized logging helpers (SLF4J-friendly usage).

**Example:**
```java
@Slf4j
public class MyService implements WhiteLoggeable {
    @Override public org.slf4j.Logger getLogger() { return log;}
    
    public void myProcess(String name, int age) {
        // Method chaining is supported - all logging methods return LogContext
        var log = withSignature("myProcess(name, age)")
            .start("Processing user {} with age {}", name, age);
        
        log.debug("User age is {}", age);
        if (age < 18) {
            log.warn("User {} is a minor", name);
        }
        
        log.info("User processed successfully")
            .end("age is now {}", age);
    }
}
```

## 3) Configuration / Setup
How do I get set up for development?

#### 3.1) Development environment
- [JDK](https://openjdk.org/) version: 	`1.8`
- [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)

#### 3.2) Project Dependencies
This library uses:
- **Lombok** to log errors and general logs.
    - **Slf4j**

#### 3.3) Planned Dependencies (in the future)
- **JUnit5**. No tests have been added yet.


### 3.3) Configuration Steps
#### 3.3.1) `main` Branch Protection
In order for us to ensure that the `main` branch isn't accidentally corrupted, we're implementing a check that will prevent users from pushing directly to `main` and forces every change to be merged with a pull request.

You can execute this file: [`main-protection-win.bat`](main-protection-win.bat) before editing any text, code, branches, or anything in this repository to help you with these cases.

#### 3.3.2) Git Alias
When executing [`main-protection-win.bat`](main-protection-win.bat), the script will open a file in notepad.

Only if you haven't done so already, paste the following git alias script at the end of that file :

```
[alias]
    main2branch = "!f() { \
        if [ \"$#\" -ne 1 ]; then \
            echo \"Usage: git main2branch <new_branch_name>\"; \
            exit 1; \
        fi; \
        current_branch=$(git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD); \
        if [ \"$current_branch\" != \"main\" ]; then \
            echo \"Error: You must be on 'main' branch to use this alias.\"; \
            exit 1; \
        fi; \
        new_branch=$1; \
        git fetch origin main || exit 1; \
        git checkout -b \"$new_branch\" || exit 1; \
        git reset --hard origin/main || exit 1; \
        git checkout main || exit 1; \
        git reset --hard origin/main || exit 1; \
        echo \"Moved local-only commits to branch '$new_branch'.\"; \
    }; f"
```
This script creates a new alias, `main2branch`, that takes all local commits on main, that aren't present in origin, and moves them to a new branch, with a customizable name. Usage: `git main2branch new-branch`. This is useful for situations when you accidentally commit on `main` locally, and need to move those changes to the new branch.

## 4) How to Deploy?
The deployment process is automated at this point, once the new version is detected to be merge into main from a PR, a GitHub action will build the artifact and upload it to Maven Central.
## 5) What are the Contribution guidelines?

#### 5.1) Writing tests.

- Unit tests using JUnit 5 will be required for new utility code.
- Keep test scope focused and deterministic.

#### 5.2) Code review.

- Create feature branches and open PRs against `main`.
- Provide a clear description of the change, rationale, and any compatibility notes.
- Keep the API surface small and stable. Maintain backward compatibility where feasible.

#### 5.3) Other guidelines.

_Please ask for the code standard to use as a guideline and reflect it in the project._
- Ensure `pom.xml` contains appropriate metadata (groupId, artifactId, version, licenses, SCM, developers) when preparing releases for Maven Central.

## 6) Who do I talk to?

<table>
<thead><tr><th><b>Role</b></th> <th><b>Contact</b></th></tr></thead>
<tr><td>Owner/admin</td><td>current main developer: <a href='mailto:obed.vazquez@gmail.com'>obed.vazquez@gmail.com</a></td></tr>
<tr><td>Supporters</td><td> Currently none</td></tr>
<tr><td>Community</td><td> send us a message in <a href='https://discord.gg/NPY5XcrKE4'>our Discord Server</a></td></tr>
</table>

>Please, contact me if you want to help; In general, I'm developing, maintaining, and supporting this project
on my own with no help or support from anyone; any tip, comment, change, or help in general is well-received.
